2015-09-10 - Argument Analysis and Paragraph Structure
======================================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignments

Due by Sunday 2015-09-13:

- Pick a topic to talk about
    - On which scientists and the general public are divided

In class Tusday 2015-09-15:

- Be prepared to lead a five-minute discussion on the topic
    - What is the prevailing scientific opinion or position? Basis?
    - What is the competing public opinion? Basis?
    - Has science failed to communicate its position clearly or effectively?
    - Etc (see assignment)

*Details on D2L*

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# _On Alchemy_

- Not really about Alchemy
    - About social sciences
- On Alchemy Syllogism:
    - Alchemy, though composed of a great deal of spurious conclusions and
      mysticism, involved experimentation which helped form the basis for modern
      hard sciences.
    - Modern social science can be likened to alchemy.
    - Modern social science involves experimentation and exploration which will help form the basis for future hard sciences.

# Paragraph structure

- General ideas for order
    - General to Specific
    - Most important to least important
    - Strongest to weakest
    - Descriptive paragraph
        - "Old school"
        - Topic sentence
        - 3 points
        - Restatement/conclusion
    - Persuasive paragraph
        - Similar to last, but specifically with a persuasive aim
        - Thesis sentence
        - 3 supporting points
        - Restatement/conclusion
    - PEEL strategy
        - make your **P**oint
        - **E**xplain what you mean
        - provide **E**vidence
        - **L**ink the paragraph to what has gone before, what comes after, or both
    - Rhetorical paragraph (provoke thought or persuade)
        - Rhetorical question (to provoke thought, rather than one intended to
          recieve an answer)
        - Implication of possible answers
        - Reasons why some answers are not true and/or unacceptable
        - The desired conclusion
    - Common sense strategy
        - Keep in mind the limits of short-term memory
            - Don't introduce too many topics or info
            - Don't drift away from subject
        - Just as sentences and texts overall need structure to be effective, so
          do paragraphs
        - **If you don't have a clear idea of what you're doing in a paragraph,
          your reader won't either.**
