2015-10-08 - Literature Review
==============================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignments

**Literature review due 2015-10-15**

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Literature Review

## What is a "literature review"

-   Evaluation of the current state of knowledge and research
-   Essential part of proposing a course of research
-   Why is it necessary?
    -   Show that you have an understanding of current state of research
    -   Show that what is proposed is actually novel
    -   Should support the premise that the research etc proposed is necessary
        and fills a gap in knowledge.
    -   Review provides context against which work will be done
    -   Enables development of a better or more important question than that
        imagined originally
-   Different strengths:
    -   **Full-blown**: A complete, standalone paper in an academic journal, one
        or more chapters in a dissertation, or a book.
    -   **"Lite"**: A paragraph or section in a paper, a writing assignment, an
        introductory part of an essay.
    -   These differ both in depth and in breadth

## Components

-   A critical description and evaluation of current or historic research and
    findings around a question
-   A synthesis and ranking of the most important research and developments
-   An analysis of the most important questions (including yours) that are not
    yet answered
-   A bibliography of all the sources consulted, in standard format

## Objectives

-   Show how your proposed work will fit into, and further, the existing body of
    knowledge
-   Enable you to get up to speed on all aspects of research that bear on your
    particular project
-   Illustrate the ways that your topic has been studied in the past
    -   Point out flaws and gaps in the existing approaches or findings
    -   Especially important if your approach is going to depart from what has
        been done previously

## Starting Point

-   Questions to Answer:
    -   What is the origin and definition of the topic?
    -   What are the key theories, concepts, ideas?
    -   What are the major issues and controversies?
    -   Do any extraneous issues have some bearing or influence on the topic
        (politics, religion, etc)?
    -   How is the topic organized?
-   Start out with a question setting the limits of the review
-   Don't need to go too far back
    -   Generally, don't need to recap anything which is 'generally known' in
        the scientific community
-   Where to look for sources?
    -   books, journals, publications (google scholar)
    -   Experts' blogs
    -   research agendas
    -   listservs
    -   etc (see slides on d2l)
