2015-09-01 - Rhetoric
=====================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignments

_DUE 2015-09-03 (8 am):_

Readings: Aristotle's *Rhetoric* Ch 1-3

Find a video online that makes an argument. Email Orin a link. Time < 3 minutes
OR select appropriate 3 minutes

No writing, but be prepared to talk about it in terms of:

- What kind of argument is being made?
    - Call to action
    - Call to desist from action
    - Win over audience to point of view
    - etc.
- To whom is the video addressed? Has the audience been assessed well?
- Identify rhetorical aspects of the argument.
    - Bases of argument? (in relation to Aristotle or not)
- Does the argument succeed or fail? Why?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Rhetoric

- Consider audience
    - Level of knowledge
    - Relationship
- Consider rhetorical method when trying to ask for something
    - Threats
    - Present benefits
        - "Today for you, tomorrow for me"
    - Ultimatum
    - Demand
    - Present as a low-cost or effort matter
    - Politeness (or lack thereof)
        - "Why not get her in the right mood first, and then put it in?"

## Rhetorical Analyses (videos)

Video 1: [*Why You Should Own Gold Today*](http://www.vimeo.com/120745031)

- Establish authenticity ("verified gold bullion")
- Benefits ("value has increased astronomically")
    - Price vs. value
- Transient opportunities ("Act now!")
- Appeal to greed

Video 1: [*Sierra Designs Tents*](http://www.vimeo.com/103437093)

- Background music, cinematography
- Aesthetics, convenience ("inviting")
- Appeal to common experience ("Everybody's favorite")

- Different audiences
    - Shown in clothes, film style, etc

Interview 1: [Reformed Radical Muslim](www.npr.org/2015/01/15/377442344/how-orwells-animal-farm-led-a-radical-muslim-to-moderation)

_Listen to whole interview_

- Distance himself from people associated with group ('ex' wife')
- Tailor message to audience
- Stir up emotions, then direct them
- Tropes
- Can't be known (look up logical fallacy)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# NGrams recap

- Case sensitivity matters
- If looking for old word meanings, [Oxford English Dictionary](oed.com)

# Writing repairs

## Punctuation

       The cause of this was most likely the British agricultural revolution a time when vood production was high
    => The cause of this was most likely the British agricultural revolution, a time when vood production was high
                                                                            ^

       Following this phones, quickly became cheaper, easier to use, and feature packed.
    => Following this, phones quickly became cheaper, easier to use, and feature-packed.
                     ^       ^                                                  ^

       The results were very interesting, since the word crash has been used for centuries mainly to describe collisions.
    => The results were very interesting, since the word "crash" has been used for centuries mainly to describe collisions.
                                                         ^     ^

## It's a plague

       Then in the mid 1990s every state had it's own variation of sex ed, in an effort to reduce the spread of AIDS and HIV.
    => Then in the mid 1990s every state had its own variation of sex ed, in an effort to reduce the spread of AIDS and HIV.
                                               ^

       The thought that god is dead has been increasing since it's inception.
    => The thought that god is dead has been increasing since its inception.
                                                                ^

## Structural

       The computer was starting to become a source of stored information, which caused people to start accessing information on early computers than looking in a book
    => The computer was starting to become a source of stored information, which caused people to start accessing information on early computers more than looking in a book
                                                                                                                                                 ^^^^

       It seems like less people are going to the library and more people are staying at home researching information without having to go to the library
    => It seems like fewer people are going to the library and more are staying at home researching information
                     ^^^^^                                         ^                                           ^

       There are many facters which could affect the prevalence of this type of negative reaction
    => There are many facters which could effect the prevalence of this type of negative reaction
                                          ^

## Date tense

       During the period 1968-1983 concerns about public health have gone up in a similar fashion
    => During the period 1968-1983 concerns about public health went up in a similar fashion

       The sales of video games has quadrupled from 1995-2008
    => The sales of video games quadrupled from 1995-2008
                               ^

       Ever since the term "market crash" has been used in 1928 it has always been used more frequently than the term "car crash."
    => Ever since the term "market crash" was coined in 1928 it has been used more frequently than the term "car crash."
                                          ^                             ^

## Dangling clause (?)

       While doing some research, it was found that the most likely reason for this correlation was the introduction of student loans into the economy.
    => While doing some research, I found that the most likely reason for this correlation was the introduction of student loans into the economy.
                                  ^

## Affect vs. Effect

word   | as a noun   | as a verb
-------|-------------|---------
effect |             | (rare)
affect | (rare)      |

