2015-09-17 - Paper Presentation
===============================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignments

*DUE Friday 18 Sept 2015*:

Find one or more candidate papers to present

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Writing Repair Shop

## "Being"

    Both of these writers also share a common theme in their writing, being that they use certain styles to sway their audience in a certain direction.
    Both of these writers also share a common theme in their writing: they use certain styles to sway their audience in a certain direction.
                                                                    ^
    Malthus then makes two primary premises for his argument, being; that food is necessary for the existence of man, and that the passion between the sexes is necessary and will remain nearly in its present state.
    Malthus then makes two primary premises for his argument, namely: that food is necessary for the existence of man, and that the passion between the sexes is necessary and will remain nearly in its present state.
                                                              ^     ^

## "However"

    Malthus demonstrates the same initiative when discussing his argument, however, Malthus fixated his attention on another person rather than a group of people.
    Malthus demonstrates the same initiative when discussing his argument; however, Malthus fixated his attention on another person rather than a group of people.
                                                                         ^

    Malthus' argument seems to be more persuasive than Bohm's, however, I tend to personally believe in what Bohm is saying more.
    Malthus' argument seems to be more persuasive than Bohm's; however, I tend to personally believe in what Bohm is saying more.
                                                             ^

# Papers

Look on [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com)

"Implementation of Genetic Algorithm in Control Structure of Induction Motor
A.C. Drive" in *Advances in Electrical and Computer Engineering*
