2015-09-03 - Aristotle, Persuasion, and Rhetoric
================================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignments

OVERDUE: Read Aristotle's *Rhetoric* Ch 1-3

Review these notes.

Write an 1000 word essay to explore (some of) these questions:

- What is common between the writings of Malthus and Bohm? Consider:
    - Motivations
    - Audiences
    - Historical Context
    - Goals
- Are their arguments scientific?
- Are their arguments persuasive?
- Were their argumetns successful?
- What are the differences in historical context that affect the way these
  two two authors approach their subjects?
- What assumptions to Bohm and Malthus make about thier readers?
- What rhetorical questions or devices do they draw upon?
- Do you find their arguments equally persuasive?

_Submit on D2L_

*Assignment details on [D2L](learn.colorado.edu)*

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# New terms

- _Enthymeme_:
    - used more by Aristotle scholars than others
    - Statement intended to persuade.
    - Today we might just say "argument."
    - In more formal logic, synonymous with *syllogism*
        - More precisely: Has same MEANING as syllogism, but not expressed
          the same way
    - Example:
        - "You're gonna love this car because of the great gas mileage"
        - One syllogism unpacking:
            - cars that get good gas mileage are desiable
            - this car gets good gas mileage
            - this car is desirable
- _Syllogism_:
    - Examples:
        - 1:
            - All humans are mortal
            - Bob is a human
            - Bob is mortal
        - 2:
            - All horses have hooves
            - No humans have hooves
            - No humans are horses
        - 3:
            - All informative things are useful
            - Some websites are not useful
            - Some websites are not informative
    - Consists of:
        - Major premise
        - Minor premise
        - A conclusion

# Aristotle

- Lived 384-322 BCE
- A student of Plato
- Tutor to Alexander the Great
- First "scientist"
- Only about 1/3 of his work survives
- "All Western philosophy is footnotes to Aristotle"

## Aristotle's '3 modes of persuasion'

- *Ethos*
    - Depends on the speaker's personal character
- *Pathos*
    - Depends on putting the audience into a certain frame of mind
- *Logos*
    - Depends on proof
    - _Apparent_ proof provided by language

## Quotes

- "Rhetoric may be defined as the faculty of observing in any given case the
  available means of persuasion."
- "The duty of rhetoric is to deal with such matters as we deliberate upon
  without arts or systems to guide us, in the hearing of persons who cannot take
  in at a glance a complicated argument, or follow a long chain of reasoning."
- "The subjects of rhetoric are such as seem to present us with alternative
  possibilities. Things that could not have been, and cannot now or in the
  future be other than they are, are not of this nature and nobody wastes his
  time in deliberation about them."

# Rhetoric

## Why Rhetoric?

- Medieval universities taught seven 'liberal arts'
    - Trivium (lower arts):
        - Gramar: Mechanics of language
        - Rhetoric: Application of language
        - Logic: Analyytical thinking
    - Quadrivium (higher arts)
        - Arithmatic
        - Geometry
        - Music
        - Astronomy
    - Only after all this was one qualified to study philosophy
    - Practical arts lie outside the 7-part classical education
- In the modern world:
    - We focus on _grammar_ to correct what you have not yet mastered.
    - _Rhetoric_ enables you to develop skills in language, images, and
      presentation to make more effective arguments
    - The need, or wish, to persuade others has never gone out of fashion.
      Scientists in particular benefit from mastery of rhetoric because of the
      inherent obstacles in putting forth their arguments
        - Counterintuitive conclusions
        - Specialist knowledge
        - Facts must prevail
        - Overcoming bias

## Does persuasion require syllogisms?

- Answer 1: No, appeals to emotion etc
- Answer 2: Can often reduce other arguments (appeals to emotion, etc) into
  syllogisms
- Orin says:
    - In general, yes: but premises, especially major premises, may often
      go unstated because they are regarded as completely obvious and not
      necessary to state
    - The more homogenous the audience of writing (or the narrower the
      genre), the less it becomes necessary to spell out premises.
    - Just because a premise is implicit and widely believed does not mean
      that it is true!
- Syllogisms are nearly always at work when people make arguments, but terms
  are omitted (especially the major premise)
    - Why leave out information?

## Inspecting Your Arguments

- Whenever you write a sentence that contains "because" or "since," there is
  probably a syllogism at work
- Your conclusion precedes "because" or "since"
- Your argument will not stand if the reader cannot find or infer your premises
  from the argument

## Persuasion by Command

- Imperatives (e.g., orders to act) and advice using "should" can be interpreted
  as conclusions in which both major premise and minor premise have to be
  inferred. Despite this, there is usually a syllogism at work
- "You should take this medicine"
    - "Taking this medicine cures <illness>"
    - "You have <illness>"
    - "You should take this medicine"

